Motorised Wheelchair Manual

	[Specifications]
	{big image of chair}
	
	[Tiller Console Components] - Page
	The tiller console houses all controls needed to drive your scooter, including the key switch, throttle control lever, horn button, speed adjustment dial, the battery condition meter and the off-board charging port. See Figures 2A and 2B.

	[Warning] - Warning
	Always avoid moisture on your tiller console. In the event that the tiller console does become exposed to moisture, do not attempt to operate your scooter until it has dried thoroughly.

	[Key Switch] - Page

	- Insert the key into the key switch and turn it clockwise to turn on your scooter.
	- Turn the key anticlockwise to turn off your scooter.
	
	Although the key can be left in the key switch when the scooter is powered down, we reccomend removing it to prevent unortharised use.

	[Warning] - Warning (Fill Up slider Value: 0-1, 0)
	If the key is moved to the "off" position while your scooter is in motion, the electronic brakes will engage and your scooter's ejector seat will be activated! To reset the Ejector Seat return the Ejector Slider to 0.

	[Throttle Control Lever] - Page

This lever allows you to control the forward speed and the reverse speed of your scooter up to the maximum speed you preset with the speed adjustment dial.


	[Horn Button] - Page

This button activates a warning horn. The scooter must be “on” for the horn to be operational. Do not hesitate to use the warning horn when doing so may prevent accident or injury.

	[Speed Adjustment Dial]- Page

This dial allows you to preselect and limit your scooter’s top speed.
- The image of the tortoise represents the slowest speed setting.
- The image of the hare represents the fastest speed setting.

If the speed adjustment image is stuck, set the Speed Dial Toggle to Reset in the dropdown. (DropDown Values: Tortoise, Hare, Reset). 

	[Battery Condition Meter]- Page

When the key is fully inserted and turned clockwise to power up your scooter, this meter indicates the approximate battery voltage strength. For further information on battery charging, see V. “Batteries and Charging.”

	[Status LED]- Page

When the key is inserted into the key switch and turned clockwise to the “on” position, the status LED lights up, indicating that scooter is powered up.

	[Off-board Battery Charger Port] - Page (Special Hold slider Value: 0-100, 5s)

The off-board battery charger lead plugs into this port during battery charging. See figure 2B.

 	[REAR SECTION COMPONENTS] - Page 

The manual freewheel lever, anti-tip wheels, batteries (not shown), motor/transaxle assembly and main circuit breaker reset button are located on the rear section of your scooter. See figure 6.


Figure 6. Rear Section

	[Manual Freewheel Lever]

Whenever you need or want to push your scooter for short distances, you can put it in freewheel mode.
1. Push down on the manual freewheel lever to disable the drive system and the brake system. You will now be able to push your scooter. (Toggle Value: 0-1, 1)
2 Pull up on the manual freewheel lever to reengage the drive and the brake systems; this takes your scooter out of freewheel mode.(Toggle Value: 0-1, 0)

	[WARNING!]
When your scooter is in freewheel mode, the braking system is disengaged.
! Disengage the drive motors only on a level surface.
! Ensure the key is removed from the key switch.
! Stand beside the scooter to engage or disengage freewheel mode. Never sit on a
scooter to do this.
! After you have finished pushing your scooter, always return it to the drive mode to lock
the brakes.

Failure to heed the above could result in personal injury and/or damage to your scooter.

	[Anti-Tip Wheels]
The anti-tip wheels are bolted to the frame of the scooter and are an integral and important safety feature of your scooter.

[PROHIBITED!] - Warning
Do not remove the anti-tip wheels or modify your scooter in any way that is not authorised by the manufacturer.

	[Batteries] - Page
The batteries store the electrical energy that powers your scooter. See V. “Batteries and Charging ” for information on how to charge your scooter batteries.

	[OFF-BOARD BATTERY CHARGER] (PRESS AND HOLD/ SENSITIVE Value: 0-12, 96%)
The off-board battery charger, when plugged into the off-board battery charger port and a standard electrical outlet, charges the scooter’s batteries.

The LED lights on the charger indicate different charger conditions at various times. Refer to the charger owner’s manual enclosed with the charger for a complete explanation of these indicators.

Your scooter is equipped with two sealed, maintenance free, 12 AH batteries. Fully charge the batteries prior to using your scooter for the first time. Keeping the batteries fully charged will keep your scooter running smoothly.

Figure 7. Battery Condition Meter

	[READING YOUR BATTERY VOLTAGE] (0-1, 1)
The battery condition meter on the tiller console uses a colour code to indicate the approximate strength of your batteries.

From right to left, green indicates fully charged batteries, yellow a draining charge and red indicates that an immediate recharge is necessary. See figure 7. To ensure the highest accuracy, the battery condition meter should be checked while operating your scooter at full speed on a dry, level surface.

To check the battery strength during charging, you must first unplug the charger power lead and turn on your scooter.

	[CHARGING THE BATTERIES]
[PROHIBITED!] 
Never use an extension lead to plug in your battery charger. Plug the charger directly into a properly wired standard electrical outlet.

[PROHIBITED!] 
Removal of the grounding prong can create an electrical hazard. If necessary, properly install an approved 3-pronged adapter to an electrical outlet having 2-pronged plug access. Failure to heed could result in personal injury and/or property damage.

[WARNING!]
Ensure that both ends of the charger power lead are clean and dry before plugging the charger power lead into the off-board charger port or the electrical outlet.

[WARNING!]
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! Read the battery charging instructions in this manual and in the manual supplied with the battery charger before charging the batteries.

[WARNING!]
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! Do no expose the off-board battery charger to rain or other sources of moisture unless it has been tested for outdoor use. Refer to the manual supplied with the battery charger for more information.

[WARNING!]
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! Explosive gases may be generated while charging the batteries. Keep the scooter and the battery charger away from sources of ignition such as flames or sparks and provide adequate ventilation when charging the batteries.

[WARNING!]
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! Inspect the battery charger, wiring and connectors for damage before each use. Contact your authorised Pride Dealer if damage is found.

[WARNING!]
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! Do not attempt to open the battery charger case. If the battery charger does not appear to be working correctly, contact your authorised Pride Dealer.

[WARNING!] 
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! If the off-board battery charger is equipped with cooling slots, then do not attempt to insert objects through these slots.

[WARNING!]
Prevent injury and/or equipment damage! Do not allow unsupervised children to play near the scooter while the batteries are charging.

	[Battery Removal]
1. Remove the key from the key switch.
2. Make sure the manual freewheel lever is in the drive position.
3. Remove the securement knob from the seat post, fold
down the seatback, then lift the seat straight up and off of
the scooter.
4. Remove the ball detent pin from the seat post, then remove the upper seat post.
5. Gently lift up and remove the rear shroud.
6. Disconnect the red (+) positive and black (-) negative
battery cables by pressing the locking tab on each cable
connector and pulling them apart. See figure 8.
7. Disconnect the battery cables from the battery terminals by sliding back each terminal boot and removing the nut from the bolt.
8. Unfasten the battery strap from each battery and remove the batteries.

	[Battery Replacement]
1. Place new batteries into the scooter and secure the battery straps.
2. Attach the red battery cable to the positive (+) battery terminal.
3. Attach the black battery cable to the negative (-) battery terminal.
4. Reposition the terminal boots over the battery terminals.
5. Reconnect the battery cable connectors until the locking tab engages, indicated by a “click.”
6. Place the rear shroud back onto the scooter frame.
7. Reinstall the upper seat post and secure it with the ball detent pin.
8. Reinstall the seat.
9. Reinstall and tighten the securement knob.

[WARNING!]
If you encounter a damaged or cracked battery, immediately enclose it in a plastic bag and call your scooters manufacturer for instructions on disposal. 

	[TILLER ANGLE ADJUSTMENT]

[WARNING!]
Remove the key from the key switch before adjusting the tiller or the seat. Never attempt to adjust the tiller or the seat while the scooter is in motion. Your scooter is equipped with an adjustable pivoting tiller.
1. Loosen the tiller adjustment knob. See figure 9. 
2. Adjust the tiller to a comfortable position.
3. Tighten the tiller adjustment knob.


	[SEAT ROTATION ADJUSTMENT] (slider Value: 0-100, 45%)
The seat rotation lever will secure the seat into several positions. 
1. Disengage the seat rotation lever to unlock the seat. See figure 10.(slider Value: 0-100, 45%)
2. Rotate the seat to the desired position. The typical position is 45 degrees.
3. Release the lever to secure the seat into place.

	[SEAT HEIGHT ADJUSTMENT] (slider Value: 0-100, 45%)
The seat can be repositioned to different heights. See figure 10.(slider Value: 0-100, 20%)
1. Remove the key from the key switch.
2. Make sure the manual freewheel lever is in the drive
position.
3. Loosen the securement knob on the seat post.
4. Remove the ball detent pin from the seat post.
5. Raise or lower the seat to the desired height. This is usually 20mm.
6. Hold the seat in position, insert the ball detent pin and tighten the securement knob.


